Thank you for downloading Version 0.4 of ITVal, an iptables
configuration verification tool.  Version 0.4 introduces many advantages
over previous releases.  In addition to several bugfixes, it now
includes a parser for the verbose rule sets generated by "iptables -L -n
-v" in addition to the simple rule sets generated by "iptables -L -n".

What's new in 0.4?
------------------

1.  The command line syntax has changed to become more flexible.  The
new syntax is:

ITVal [options]

Where the available options are:

-q <query file>
-t <topology file>
-f <rule set file>
-F <verbose rule set file>
-n <NAT rule set file>
-N <verbose NAT rule set file>

Multiple filters can be analyzed by passing multiple instances of the -f
and -n flags on the command line.  Each NAT rule set is matched with the
most recent filter rule set.

2.  ITVal now provides "INFACE" and "OUTFACE" matches in the query
language for specifying incoming and outgoing network interfaces
respectively.  This is particularly useful for checking spoofing
protections.  For instance, if interface eth0 is on subnet
192.168.1.0/24, the following query could be used to ensure that the
firewall prevents spoofing on that interface:

QUERY DPORT (INFACE eth0 AND NOT FROM 192.168.1.*) 
    OR (OUTFACE eth0 AND NOT TO 192.168.1.*);

This functionality is only useful if a topology file has been provided
and verbose rule sets are used.  In any other case, ITVal will assume
that every firewall rule is applied to all interfaces.

What is not provided in release 0.4?
------------------------------------
1.  Support for non-iptables filters.

ITVal does not filters for platforms other than Linux. Because maintaining
parsers for other languages is costly and time-consuming, it is unlikely
that I will be adding support for other platforms.  However, I do intend
to create an API for writing language modules, so if you want to see
your platform supported, you will have the tools to add support for that
language.

2.  Support for application level filtering.

ITVal is designed to work only with packet-filters.  While, in theory,
ITVal could be extended to other uses, such as e-mail filtering, to do
so would require a significant overhaul of the internal design.

3.  A fancy graphical front-end.

I hope to have something in place soon, however.  If I can sell the
developer of an existing firewall management GUI on incorporating ITVal
support, this would be a much easier task.
